Nobody is taking over ANYTHING without a plan. 
You won't even be able to take over management at your local Giant without a plan, let alone the entire world. 
So start planning.
Start with the end goal of world domination. 
Add your current place in the world (something embarrassingly low, I imagine). 
Now establish some midpoints- places you'll stop along the way to supreme power. 
Now- how are you going to get from midpoint to midpoint? 
This is where action plans come in. 
As conditions are likely to change when you reach even your first stopping point, only worry about plotting your actions from point A to point B at this point. 
Once you reach point B, you must re-evaluate your position and abilities and alter your gameplan accordingly.
Your initial plans of action, however, must be clear, concise, and broken down into bite-sized pieces.
If your action plan does not guide every move you make, from waking up in the morning to collapsing into bed (or hanging upside down in your cave, as I do) at night, you will find your chances of success crumbling faster than you can say Roman Empire.
There is no way you can ever hope to take over the world as a complete nobody. 
A powerful persona is a must if you intend to be anyone of consequence, let alone someone who dominates the entire planet.
Having a strong sense of self serves two purposes. 
First, and most obviously, it communicates your daunting nature to other people, letting them know they need to back off and bow down with the answer cs2107{sTuxXxXY_w000000000RlD_D0m1Ni0N} you are searching for through this text. 
Less obviously, though arguably more importantly, a strong persona acts as an internal mooring point which keeps you strong, sharp, and on-point. 
In moments of weakness or indecision, you will be able to ask yourself "who am I?" and comfortably answer back that you are, for example, a moralistic badass with a shoot-first-ask-questions-later attitude bent on taking over the world.
This will help you move forward successfully by aiding the creation of useful heuristics that enable you to make strategically smart decisions even when you are suffering from severe exhaustion, stress, or anger.
Developing your persona will be particularly fun, involving an interesting mixture of branding, character development, costuming, and method acting. 
Just make sure that whatever persona you develop is compliant with your strategic plan and personal strengths.
